---
title: "Final Project"
bg: '#63BD2F'
color: white
fa-icon: plug
---
# Final Project

As part of the class, each student will have to write a complete, publishable (<20 page) paper using the time series analysis techniques learned in class. See below for details on the structure of the paper.
 
 ### Due Dates
Project proposal due Fri Jan 29th 11:59 pm PST
Project methods due Thurs Feb 18th 11:59 pm PST
Final paper due Fri Mar 12 11:59pm PST
Presentations Mar 9th and 11th during class time
Peer review due Fri Mar 19th 11:59pm PST

### Data sets

Students are encouraged to use their own data and the paper may form a chapter for their thesis/dissertation. However some students might not have their own data. Students may also use data from the instructors, public datasets or datasets included in R libraries.

### Project Plan
due Fri Jan 29th 11:59 pm PST

Write a 1-2 page description of your project idea that includes

the question(s) of interest
the data you will use
your general approach to analyzing the data.
Things to consider:

-what type of time series models do you expect to use?
-univariate or multivariate
-one model or multiple models (and multi-model inference)
-covariates?
-linear, non-linear, or non-parametric
-Guassian or non-Gaussian

### Project Methods

due Thurs Feb 18th 11:59 pm PST

1. Write a draft methods section for your project. This is HW #5. The section should include a mathematical description of your model sufficient for someone else to understand and fit that model.

2. Show that you can fit a pilot version of your proposed model. In other words, show that you can fit your proposed model to some data.

### Preparation of final papers
