---
title: "home"
bg: white
color: black
style: center
---

# Time Series - MAT 3208
{: .text-black}

<span class="fa-stack subtlecircle" style="font-size:100px; background:rgba(255,166,0,0.1)">
  <i class="fa fa-circle fa-stack-2x text-white"></i>
  <i class="fa fa-home fa-stack-1x text-orange"></i>
</span>

# Course overview
{: .text-blue}

The analysis of real-world data that have been observed at different time points leads to unique problems in statistical modeling and inference. The time series analysis explains specific ways of analyzing a sequence of data points collected over an interval of time. This course will introduce modern time series analysis techniques and theories which could use to model real-world applications.Introduction and objective of time series analysis. Some simple time series models: stationary models and the autocorrelation function, Estimation and elimination of trend and seasonal components, Testing the estimated noise sequence. Stationary process: Basics properties and forecasting methods, An introduction to ARMA models.

# Textbook
{: .text-blue}

Robert H. Shumway and David S. Stoffer. Time Series Analysis and Its Applications With R Examples. Fourth Edition. Springer Publication

# Learning objectives
{: .text-blue}

### By the end of the semester, students should be able to:

<style>
ul {
  /* list-style-type: none; */
  text-align:left;
}
</style>

- Describe the important features of the time series pattern.
- Explain how the past affects the future or how two-time series can “interact”.
- Determine a model that describes the pattern of the time series.  
- Forecast future values of the series.

# Lecturer in charge
{: .text-blue}

Ranjan Dissanayake - ranjand82@gmail.com

# Instructor
{: .text-blue}

Nethmi Herath - nethmichanika@gmail.com

# Pre-requisites
{: .text-blue}

Students should have a working knowledge of the R computing software. Students should also have an understanding of basic probability and statistical inference.

# Teaching methodology
{: .text-blue}

This course will introduce new material primarily through prepared slides and hands-on demonstrations. Students will be expected to work both individually and collaboratively (to the extent possible given the current conditions); course content and evaluation will emphasize the communication of ideas and the ability to think critically more so than a specific pathway or method. Other areas of this website provide an overview of the topics to be covered, including links to weekly reading assignments, lecture materials, computer labs, and homework assignments.

# Evaluation
{: .text-blue}

- Pre preparation Worksheets (10%)
- Homework (10%)
- quiz (10%)
- Mid Examination (15%)
- End Examination (25%)
- Final project (30%)

# Grading Rubric
{: .text-blue}

In general, allocated marks for each and every problem will graded under the following rubric.

- Preparation / Attempt / Start  you will get - 25%
- Steps / Process / Logical Flow you will get - 50%
- Answer / Completion you will get - 25% 

# Important Dates
{: .text-blue}

<style>
.tablelines table, .tablelines td, .tablelines th {
        border: 1px solid black;
        }
 
 .table{ 
  align: center;
  align-content: center;
  }
</style>
<div class="table">
| **Description** | **Date/ Time** |
| --- | --- |
| Pre preparation Worksheets | Wednesday 11.59 a.m. |
| Homework | Sunday 11.59 p.m. |
| Quiz | Thursday 8.00 a.m. |
| Mid Examination | TBA |
| End Examination | TBA |
| Group / Individual Project | Every other Thursday at 9.30 a.m. |
{: .tablelines}
</div>

**Note: All the grades will be uploaded to the grade book http://www.thecn.com/6170583 within one week after your submission due date.**

